[original link](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/)

## Authentication and Authorization

OpenAPI uses the term **security scheme** for authentication and  authorization schemes. 
OpenAPI 3.0 lets you describe APIs protected  using the following security schemes:

- HTTP authentication schemes (they use the 

  ```
  Authorization
  ```

   header): 	

  - [Basic](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/basic-authentication/)
  - [Bearer](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/bearer-authentication/)
  - other HTTP schemes as defined by [RFC 7235](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7235) and [HTTP Authentication Scheme Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-authschemes/http-authschemes.xhtml)

- API keys

   in headers, query string or cookies 

  - [Cookie authentication](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/cookie-authentication/)

- [OAuth 2](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/oauth2/)

- [OpenID Connect Discovery](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/openid-connect-discovery/)

Follow the links above for the guides on specific security types, or  continue reading to learn how to describe security in general.

### Changes from OpenAPI 2.0

If you used OpenAPI 2.0 before, here is a summary of changes to help you get started with OpenAPI 3.0:

- `securityDefinitions` were renamed to `securitySchemes` and moved inside `components`.
- `type: basic` was replaced with `type: http` and `scheme: basic`.
- The new `type: http` is an umbrella type for all HTTP security schemes, including Basic, Bearer and other, and the `scheme` keyword indicates the scheme type.
- API keys can now be sent `in: cookie`.
- Added support for OpenID Connect Discovery (`type: openIdConnect`).
- OAuth 2 security schemes can now define multiple `flows`.
- OAuth 2 flows were renamed to match the [OAuth 2 Specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-1.3): `accessCode` is now `authorizationCode`, and `application` is now `clientCredentials`.

### Describing Security

Security is described using the `securitySchemes` and `security` keywords. 
You use `securitySchemes` to define all security schemes your API supports, then use `security` to apply specific schemes to the whole API or individual operations.

#### Step 1. Defining securitySchemes

All security schemes used by the API must be defined in the global `components/securitySchemes` section. 
This section contains a list of named security schemes, where each scheme can be of `type`:

- `http` – for [Basic](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/basic-authentication/), [Bearer](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/bearer-authentication/) and other HTTP authentications schemes
- `apiKey` – for [API keys](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/api-keys/) and [cookie authentication](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/cookie-authentication/)
- `oauth2` – for [OAuth 2](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/oauth2/)
- `openIdConnect` – for [OpenID Connect Discovery](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/openid-connect-discovery/)

Other required properties for security schemes depend on the `type`. 
The following example shows how various security schemes are defined. 
The *BasicAuth*, *BearerAuth* names and others are arbitrary names that will be used to refer to these definitions from other places in the spec.

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:

    BasicAuth:
      type: http
      scheme: basic

    BearerAuth:
      type: http
      scheme: bearer

    ApiKeyAuth:
      type: apiKey
      in: header
      name: X-API-Key

    OpenID:
      type: openIdConnect
      openIdConnectUrl: https://example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration

    OAuth2:
      type: oauth2
      flows:
        authorizationCode:
          authorizationUrl: https://example.com/oauth/authorize
          tokenUrl: https://example.com/oauth/token
          scopes:
            read: Grants read access
            write: Grants write access
            admin: Grants access to admin operations
```

#### Step 2. Applying security

After you have defined the security schemes in the `securitySchemes` section, you can apply them to the whole API or individual operations by adding the `security` section on the root level or operation level, respectively. 
When used on the root level, `security` applies the specified security schemes globally to all API operations,  unless overridden on the operation level. 
In the following example, the  API calls can be authenticated using either an API key or OAuth 2. 
The *ApiKeyAuth* and *OAuth2* names refer to the schemes previously defined in `securitySchemes`.

```yaml
security:
  - ApiKeyAuth: []
  - OAuth2:
      - read
      - write

# The syntax is:
# - scheme name:
#     - scope 1
#     - scope 2
```

For each scheme, you specify a list of security scopes required for API calls (see [below](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/#scopes)). Scopes are used only for OAuth 2 and OpenID Connect Discovery; other security schemes use an empty array `[]` instead. Global `security` can be overridden in individual operations to use a different  authentication type, different OAuth/OpenID scopes, or no authentication at all:

```yaml
paths:
  /billing_info:
    get:
      summary: Gets the account billing info
      security:
        - OAuth2: [admin]   # Use OAuth with a different scope
      responses:
        '200':
          description: OK
        '401':
          description: Not authenticated
        '403':
          description: Access token does not have the required scope

  /ping:
    get:
      summary: Checks if the server is running
      security: []   # No security
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Server is up and running
        default:
          description: Something is wrong
```

### Scopes

OAuth 2 and OpenID Connect use *scopes* to control permissions to various user resources. 
For example, the scopes for a pet store may include `read_pets`, `write_pets`, `read_orders`, `write_orders`, `admin`. 
When applying `security`, the entries corresponding to OAuth 2 and OpenID Connect need to specify a list of scopes required for a specific operation (if `security` is used on the operation level) or all API calls (if `security` is used on the root level).

```yaml
security:
  - OAuth2:
      - scope1
      - scope2
  - OpenId:
      - scopeA
      - scopeB
  - BasicAuth: []
```

- In case of OAuth 2, the scopes used in `security` must be previously defined in `securitySchemes`.
- In case of OpenID Connect Discovery, possible scopes are listed in the discovery endpoint specified by `openIdConnectUrl`.
- Other schemes (Basic, Bearer, API keys and others) do not use scopes, so their `security` entries specify an empty array `[]` instead.

Different operations typically require different scopes, such as read vs write vs admin. 
In this case, you should apply scoped `security` to specific operations instead of doing it globally.

```yaml
# Instead of this:
# security:
#   - OAuth2:
#       - read
#       - write

# Do this:
paths:
  /users:
    get:
      summary: Get a list of users
      security:
        - OAuth2: [read]     # <------
      ...

    post:
      summary: Add a user
      security:
        - OAuth2: [write]    # <------
      ...
```

### Using Multiple Authentication Types

Some REST APIs support several authentication types. 
The `security` section lets you combine the security requirements using logical OR and AND to achieve the desired result. 
`security` uses the following logic:

```
security:    # A OR B  - A  - B
security:    # A AND B  - A    B
security:    # (A AND B) OR (C AND D)  - A    B  - C    D
```

That is, `security` is an array of hashmaps, where each  hashmap contains one or more named security schemes. 
Items in a hashmap  are combined using logical AND, and array items are combined using  logical OR. 
Security schemes combined via OR are alternatives – any one  can be used in the given context. 
Security schemes combined via AND must be used simultaneously in the same request. 
Here, we can use either  Basic authentication or an API key:

```yaml
security:
  - basicAuth: []
  - apiKey: []
```

Here, the API requires a pair of API keys to be included in requests:

```yaml
security:
  - apiKey1: []
    apiKey2: []
```

Here, we can use either OAuth 2 or a pair of API keys:

```yaml
security:
  - oauth2: [scope1, scope2]
  - apiKey1: []
    apiKey2: []
```

### Reference

[Security Scheme Object](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.3.md#securitySchemeObject)

[Security Requirement Object](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.3.md#security-requirement-object)


## Basic Authentication

[Basic authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication) is a simple authentication scheme built into the HTTP protocol. The client sends HTTP requests with the `Authorization` header that contains the word `Basic` word followed by a space and a base64-encoded string `username:password`. For example, to authorize as `demo / p@55w0rd` the client would send

```
Authorization: Basic ZGVtbzpwQDU1dzByZA==
```

**Note:** Because base64 is easily decoded, Basic authentication  should only be used together with other security mechanisms such as  HTTPS/SSL.

### Describing Basic Authentication

Using OpenAPI 3.0, you can describe Basic authentication as follows:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
...

components:
  securitySchemes:
    basicAuth:     # <-- arbitrary name for the security scheme
      type: http
      scheme: basic

security:
  - basicAuth: []  # <-- use the same name here
```

The first section, `securitySchemes`, defines a security scheme named *basicAuth* (an arbitrary name). 
This scheme must have `type: http` and `scheme: basic`. 
The `security` section then applies Basic authentication to the entire API. 
The square brackets `[]` denote the security scopes used; the list is empty because Basic authentication does not use scopes. 
`security` can be set globally (as in the example above) or on the operation  level. 
The latter is useful if only a subset of operations require Basic authentication:

```yaml
paths:
  /something:
    get:
      security:
        - basicAuth:[]
```

Basic authentication can also be combined with other authentication methods as explained in [Using Multiple Authentication Types](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/#multiple).

### 401 Response

You can also define the 401 “Unauthorized” response returned for  requests with missing or incorrect credentials. 
This response includes  the `WWW-Authenticate` header, which you may want to mention. 
As with other common responses, the 401 response can be defined in the global `components/responses` section and referenced elsewhere via `$ref`.

```yaml
paths:
  /something:
    get:
      ...
      responses:
        ...
        '401':
           $ref: '#/components/responses/UnauthorizedError'
    post:
      ...
      responses:
        ...
        '401':
          $ref: '#/components/responses/UnauthorizedError'
...
components:
  responses:
    UnauthorizedError:
      description: Authentication information is missing or invalid
      headers:
        WWW_Authenticate:
        schema:
          type: string
```

To learn more about the `responses` syntax, see [Describing Responses](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-responses/).





## API Keys

Some APIs use API keys for authorization. 
An API key is a token that a  client provides when making API calls. 
The key can be sent in the query  string:

```http request
GET /something?api_key=abcdef12345
```

or as a request header:

```http request
GET /something HTTP/1.1
X-API-Key: abcdef12345
```

or as a [cookie](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/cookie-authentication/):

```http request
GET /something HTTP/1.1
Cookie: X-API-KEY=abcdef12345
```

API keys are supposed to be a secret that only the client and server know. 
Like [Basic authentication](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/basic-authentication/), API key-based authentication is only considered secure if used together with other security mechanisms such as HTTPS/SSL.

### Describing API Keys

In OpenAPI 3.0, API keys are described as follows:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
...

# 1) Define the key name and location
components:
  securitySchemes:
    ApiKeyAuth:        # arbitrary name for the security scheme
      type: apiKey
      in: header       # can be "header", "query" or "cookie"
      name: X-API-KEY  # name of the header, query parameter or cookie

# 2) Apply the API key globally to all operations
security:
  - ApiKeyAuth: []     # use the same name as under securitySchemes
```

This example defines an API key named `X-API-Key` sent as a request header `X-API-Key: <key>`. 
The key name *ApiKeyAuth* is an arbitrary name for the security scheme (not to be confused with the API key name, which is specified by the `name` key). 
The name *ApiKeyAuth* is used again in the `security` section to apply this security scheme to the API. 
**Note:** The `securitySchemes` section alone is not enough; you must also use `security` for the API key to have effect. 
`security` can also be set on the operation level instead of globally. This is useful if just a subset of the operations need the API key:

```yaml
paths:
  /something:
    get:
      # Operation-specific security:
      security:
        - ApiKeyAuth: []
      responses:
        '200':
          description: OK (successfully authenticated)
```

Note that it is possible to support multiple authorization types in an API. 
See [Using Multiple Authentication Types](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/#multiple).

### Multiple API Keys

Some APIs use a pair of security keys, say, API Key and App ID. 
To specify that the keys are used together (as in logical AND), list them in the same array item in the `security` array:

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    apiKey:
      type: apiKey
      in: header
      name: X-API-KEY
    appId:
      type: apiKey
      in: header
      name: X-APP-ID

security:
  - apiKey: []
    appId:  []   # <-- no leading dash (-)
```

Note the difference from:

```yaml
security:
  - apiKey: []
  - appId:  []
```

which means either key can be used (as in logical OR). 
For more examples, see [Using Multiple Authentication Types](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/#multiple).

### 401 Response

You can define the 401 “Unauthorized” response returned for requests  with missing or invalid API key. 
This response includes the `WWW-Authenticate` header, which you may want to mention. 
As with other common responses, the 401 response can be defined in the global `components/responses` section and referenced elsewhere via `$ref`.

```yaml
paths:
  /something:
    get:
      ...
      responses:
        ...
        '401':
           $ref: "#/components/responses/UnauthorizedError"
    post:
      ...
      responses:
        ...
        '401':
          $ref: "#/components/responses/UnauthorizedError"

components:
  responses:
    UnauthorizedError:
      description: API key is missing or invalid
      headers:
        WWW_Authenticate:
          schema:
            type: string
```

To learn more about describing responses, see [Describing Responses](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-responses/).

 



## Bearer Authentication

**Bearer authentication** (also called **token authentication**) is an [HTTP authentication scheme](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication) that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. 
The name “Bearer  authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this  token.” 
The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the  server in response to a login request. 
The client must send this token  in the `Authorization` header when making requests to protected resources:

```
Authorization: Bearer <token>
```

The Bearer authentication scheme was originally created as part of [OAuth 2.0](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/oauth2/) in [RFC 6750](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750), but is sometimes also used on its own. 
Similarly to [Basic authentication](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/basic-authentication/), Bearer authentication should only be used over HTTPS (SSL).

### Describing Bearer Authentication

In OpenAPI 3.0, Bearer authentication is a security scheme with `type: http` and `scheme: bearer`. 
You first need to define the security scheme under `components/securitySchemes`, then use the `security` keyword to apply this scheme to the desired scope – global (as in the example below) or specific operations:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
...

# 1) Define the security scheme type (HTTP bearer)
components:
  securitySchemes:
    bearerAuth:            # arbitrary name for the security scheme
      type: http
      scheme: bearer
      bearerFormat: JWT    # optional, arbitrary value for documentation purposes

# 2) Apply the security globally to all operations
security:
  - bearerAuth: []         # use the same name as above
```

Optional `bearerFormat` is an arbitrary string that specifies how the bearer token is formatted. 
Since bearer tokens are usually  generated by the server, `bearerFormat` is used mainly for documentation purposes, as a hint to the clients. 
In the example above, it is "JWT", meaning [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io). The square brackets `[]` in *bearerAuth: []* contain a list of security scopes required for API calls. 
The list is empty because scopes are only used with OAuth 2 and [OpenID Connect](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/openid-connect-discovery/). 
In the example above, Bearer authentication is applied globally to the  whole API. 
If you need to apply it to just a few operations, add `security` on the operation level instead of doing this globally:

```yaml
paths:
  /something:
    get:
      security:
        - bearerAuth: []
```

Bearer authentication can also be combined with other authentication methods as explained in [Using Multiple Authentication Types](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/#multiple).

### 401 Response

You can also define the 401 “Unauthorized” response returned for  requests that do not contain a proper bearer token. 
Since the 401  response will be used by multiple operations, you can define it in the  global `components/responses` section and reference elsewhere via `$ref`.

```yaml
paths:
  /something:
    get:
      ...
      responses:
        '401':
          $ref: '#/components/responses/UnauthorizedError'
        ...
    post:
      ...
      responses:
        '401':
          $ref: '#/components/responses/UnauthorizedError'
        ...

components:
  responses:
    UnauthorizedError:
      description: Access token is missing or invalid
```

To learn more about `responses`, see [Describing Responses](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-responses/).



## OAuth 2.0

[OAuth 2.0](https://oauth.net/2/) is an authorization  protocol that gives an API client limited access to user data on a web  server. 
GitHub, Google, and Facebook APIs notably use it. 
OAuth relies  on authentication scenarios called *flows*, which allow the  resource owner (user) to share the protected content from the resource  server without sharing their credentials. 
For that purpose, an OAuth 2.0 server issues access tokens that the client applications can use to  access protected resources on behalf of the resource owner. 
For more  information about OAuth 2.0, see [oauth.net](https://oauth.net/2) and [RFC 6749](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749).

### Flows

The *flows* (also called *grant types*) are scenarios an  API client performs to get an access token from the authorization  server. 
OAuth 2.0 provides several flows suitable for different types of API clients:

- **Authorization code** – The most common flow,  mostly used for server-side and mobile web applications. This flow is  similar to how users sign up into a web application using their Facebook or Google account.
- **Implicit** – This flow requires the client to  retrieve an access token directly. It is useful in cases when the user’s credentials cannot be stored in the client code because they can be  easily accessed by the third party. It is suitable for web, desktop, and mobile applications that do not include any server component.
- **Resource owner password credentials** (or just **password**) – Requires logging in with a username and password. Since in that case  the credentials will be a part of the request, this flow is suitable  only for trusted clients (for example, official applications released by the API provider).
- **Client Credentials** – Intended for the  server-to-server authentication, this flow describes an approach when  the client application acts on its own behalf rather than on behalf of  any individual user. In most scenarios, this flow provides the means to  allow users specify their credentials in the client application, so it  can access the resources under the client’s control.

### Describing OAuth 2.0 Using OpenAPI

To describe an API protected using OAuth 2.0, first, add a security scheme with `type: oauth2` to the global `components/securitySchemes` section. Then add the `security` key to apply security globally or to individual operations:

```yaml
# Step 1 - define the security scheme
components:
  securitySchemes:
    oAuthSample:    # <---- arbitrary name      
    type: oauth2      
    description: This API uses OAuth 2 with the implicit grant flow. [More info](https://api.example.com/docs/auth)
    flows:
      implicit:   # <---- OAuth flow(authorizationCode, implicit, password or clientCredentials)          
      authorizationUrl: https://api.example.com/oauth2/authorize          
      scopes:          
        read_pets: read your pets          
        write_pets: modify pets in your account
# Step 2 - apply security globally...
security:
   - oAuthSample:   
     - write_pets    
     - read_pets
# ... or to individual operations
paths:
  /pets:  
    patch:    
      summary: Add a new pet    
      security:       
        - oAuthSample:         
          - write_pets        
            - read_pets      
...
```

The `flows` keyword specifies one or more named flows supported by this OAuth 2.0 scheme. The flow names are:

- `authorizationCode` – Authorization Code flow (previously called `accessCode` in OpenAPI 2.0)
- `implicit` – Implicit flow
- `password` – Resource Owner Password flow
- `clientCredentials` – Client Credentials flow (previously called `application` in OpenAPI 2.0)

The `flows` object can specify multiple flows, but only one of each type. Each flow contains the following information:

| Field Name                                                   | Description                                                  | Applies to flows |                     |      |      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- | ------------------- | ---- | ---- |
| `authorizationCode`                                          | `implicit`                                                   | `password`       | `clientCredentials` |      |      |
| `authorizationUrl`                                           | The authorization URL to use for this flow. Can be relative to the [API server URL](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/api-host-and-base-path/). | +                | +                   | -    | -    |
| `tokenUrl`                                                   | The token URL to use for this flow. Can be relative to the API server URL. | +                | -                   | +    | +    |
| `refreshUrl`                                                 | Optional. The URL to be used for obtaining refresh tokens. Can be relative to the API server URL. | +                | +                   | +    | +    |
| [`scopes`](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/oauth2/#scopes-extra) | The available scopes for the OAuth2 security scheme. A map between the scope name and a short description for it. | +                | +                   | +    | +    |

### About Scopes

With OpenAPI 3.0, a user can grant scoped access to their account, which can vary depending on the operation the client application wants to  perform. 
Each OAuth access token can be tagged with multiple scopes.  
Scopes are access rights that control whether the credentials a user  provides allow to perform the needed call to the resource server. 
They  do not grant any additional permissions to the client except for those  it already has. 
**Note**: In the *authorization code* and *implicit* flows, the requested scopes are listed on the authorization form  displayed to the user. 
To apply the scopes, you need to perform two  steps:

1. Define all supported scopes in your OAuth security definition in the 

   ```
   components/securitySchemes
   ```

    section: 	

   ```
   components:  securitySchemes:    oAuthSample:      type: oauth2      flows:        implicit:          authorizationUrl: https://api.example.com/oauth2/authorize          scopes:            read_pets: read pets in your account            write_pets: modify pets in your account
   ```

2. List the scopes required by each operation in the 

   ```
   security
   ```

    section of that operation: 

   ```
   paths:  /pets/{petId}:    patch:      summary: Updates a pet in the store      security:         - oAuthSample: [write_pets]      ...
   ```

   ​	If all API operations require the same scopes, you can add 

   ```
   security
   ```

    on the root level of the API definition instead: 	

   ```
   security:   - oAuthSample: [write_pets]
   ```

#### No Scopes

Scopes are optional, and your API may not use any. In this case, specify an empty object `{}` in the scopes definition, and an empty list of scopes `[]` in the `security` section:

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    oAuthNoScopes:
      type: oauth2
      flows: 
        implicit: 
          authorizationUrl: https://api.example.com/oauth2/authorize
          scopes: {}   # <-----

security:
  - oAuthNoScopes: []  # <-----
```

### Relative Endpoint URLs

In OpenAPI 3.0, `authorizationUrl`, `tokenUrl` and `refreshUrl` can be specified relative to the [API server URL](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/api-host-and-base-path/). 
This is handy if these endpoints are on same server as the rest of the API operations.

```yaml
servers:
  - url: https://api.example.com/v2

components:
  securitySchemes:
    oauth2sample:
      type: oauth2
      flows: 
        authorizationCode:
          authorizationUrl: /oauth/authorize  # <-----
          tokenUrl: /oauth/token              # <-----
          scopes:
            ...
```

Relative URLs are resolved according to [RFC 3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-4.2). 
In the example above, the endpoints will be resolved to:

```
authorizationUrl: https://api.example.com/oauth/authorize
tokenUrl: https://api.example.com/oauth/token
```

### Security Scheme Examples

#### Authorization Code Flow

The `authorization` flow uses `authorizationUrl`, `tokenUrl` and optional `refreshUrl`. 
Here is an example for [Slack API](https://api.slack.com/docs/oauth):

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    oAuth2AuthCode:
      type: oauth2
      description: For more information, see https://api.slack.com/docs/oauth
      flows: 
        authorizationCode:
          authorizationUrl: https://slack.com/oauth/authorize
          tokenUrl: https://slack.com/api/oauth.access
          scopes:
            users:read: Read user information
            users:write: Modify user information
            im:read: Read messages
            im:write: Write messages
            im:history: Access the message archive
            search:read: Search messages, files, and so on
            # etc.
```

#### Implicit Flow

`implicit` flow defines `authorizationUrl` that is used to obtain the access token from the authorization server. Here is an example:

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    oAuth2Implicit:
      type: oauth2
      description: For more information, see https://developers.getbase.com/docs/rest/articles/oauth2/requests
      flows: 
        implicit:
          authorizationUrl: https://api.getbase.com/oauth2/authorize
          scopes:
            read: Grant read-only access to all your data except for the account and user info
            write: Grant write-only access to all your data except for the account and user info
            profile: Grant read-only access to the account and user info only
```

#### Resource Owner Password Flow

The `password` flow uses `tokenUrl` and optional `refreshUrl`. Here is an example:

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    oAuth2Password:
      type: oauth2
      description: See https://developers.getbase.com/docs/rest/articles/oauth2/requests
      flows: 
        password: 
          tokenUrl: https://api.getbase.com/oauth2/token
          scopes: 
            read: Grant read-only access to all your data except for the account and user info
            write: Grant write-only access to all your data except for the account and user info
            profile: Grant read-only access to the account and user info only
```

#### Client Credentials Flow

The `clientCredentials` flow uses `tokenUrl` and optional `refreshUrl`. Here is an example for [Getty Images API](http://developers.gettyimages.com/api/docs/v3/oauth2.html):

```yaml
conponents:
  securitySchemes:
    oAuth2ClientCredentials:
      type: oauth2
      description: See http://developers.gettyimages.com/api/docs/v3/oauth2.html
      flows: 
        clientCredentials: 
          tokenUrl: https://api.gettyimages.com/oauth2/token/
          scopes: {} # Getty Images does not use scopes
```

#### Multiple Flows

Below is an example of the OAuth 2.0 security definition that supports multiple flows. The clients can use any of these flows.

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    oAuth2:
      type: oauth2
      description: For more information, see https://developers.getbase.com/docs/rest/articles/oauth2/requests
      flows: 
        implicit:
          authorizationUrl: https://api.getbase.com/oauth2/authorize
          scopes:
            read: Grant read-only access to all your data except for the account and user info
            write: Grant write-only access to all your data except for the account and user info
            profile: Grant read-only access to the account and user info only
        password: 
          tokenUrl: https://api.getbase.com/oauth2/token
          scopes: 
            read: Grant read-only access to all your data except for the account and user info
            write: Grant write-only access to all your data except for the account and user info
            profile: Grant read-only access to the account and user info only
```

### Frequently Asked Questions

**Should I additionally define `authorizationUrl` and `tokenUrl` as API operations?**

`authorizationUrl` is not an API endpoint but a special  web page that requires user input. 
So, it cannot be described using  OpenAPI. 
Still, you can describe `tokenUrl` if you need it.

**Should `authorizationUrl` and `tokenUrl` include query string parameters, such as `grant_type`, `client_id` and others?**

The OpenAPI Specification does not state this, so it is up to you and the tools you use.







## OpenID Connect Discovery

[**OpenID Connect (OIDC)**](http://openid.net/connect/) is an identity layer built on top of the [OAuth 2.0](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/oauth2/) protocol and supported by some OAuth 2.0 providers, such as Google and  Azure Active Directory. 
It defines a sign-in flow that enables a client  application to authenticate a user, and to obtain information (or  "claims") about that user, such as the user name, email, and so on. 
User identity information is encoded in a secure JSON Web Token (JWT),  called ID token. 
OpenID Connect defines a discovery mechanism, called [**OpenID Connect Discovery**](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html), where an OpenID server publishes its metadata at a well-known URL, typically

```
https://server.com/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

This URL returns a JSON listing of the OpenID/OAuth endpoints,  supported scopes and claims, public keys used to sign the tokens, and  other details. 
The clients can use this information to construct a  request to the OpenID server. 
The field names and values are defined in  the [OpenID Connect Discovery Specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html). 
Here is an example of data returned:

```json
{
  "issuer": "https://example.com/",
  "authorization_endpoint": "https://example.com/authorize",
  "token_endpoint": "https://example.com/token",
  "userinfo_endpoint": "https://example.com/userinfo",
  "jwks_uri": "https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json",
  "scopes_supported": [
    "pets_read",
    "pets_write",
    "admin"
  ],
  "response_types_supported": [
    "code",
    "id_token",
    "token id_token"
  ],
  "token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported": [
    "client_secret_basic"
  ],
  ...
}
```

### Describing OpenID Connect Discovery

OpenAPI 3.0 lets you describe OpenID Connect Discovery as follows:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
...

# 1) Define the security scheme type and attributes
components:
  securitySchemes:
    openId:   # <--- Arbitrary name for the security scheme. Used to refer to it from elsewhere.
      type: openIdConnect
      openIdConnectUrl: https://example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration

# 2) Apply security globally to all operations
security:
  - openId:   # <--- Use the same name as specified in securitySchemes
      - pets_read
      - pets_write
      - admin
```

The first section, `components/securitySchemes`, defines the security scheme type (`openIdConnect`) and the URL of the discovery endpoint (`openIdConnectUrl`). 
Unlike OAuth 2.0, you do not need to list the available scopes in `securitySchemes` – the clients are supposed to read them from the discovery endpoint instead. 
The `security` section then applies the chosen security scheme to your API. 
The actual scopes required for API calls need to be listed here. 
These may be a  subset of the scopes returned by the discovery endpoint. 
If different  API operations require different scopes, you can apply `security` on the operation level instead of globally. 
This way you can list the relevant scopes for each operation:

```yaml
paths:
  /pets/{petId}:
    get:
      summary: Get a pet by ID
      security:
        - openId:
          - pets_read
      ...

    delete:
      summary: Delete a pet by ID
      security:
        - openId:
          - pets_write
      ...
```

### Relative Discovery URL

`openIdConnectUrl` can be specified relative to the [server URL](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/api-host-and-base-path/), like so:

```yaml
servers:
  - url: https://api.example.com/v2

components:
  securitySchemes:
    openId:
      type: openIdConnect
      openIdConnectUrl: /.well-known/openid-configuration
```

Relative URLs are resolved according to [RFC 3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-4.2). In the example above, it will be resolved to *https://api.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration*.

### Swagger UI support

Support for OpenID Connect Discovery was added in Swagger UI v. 3.38.0 and Swagger Editor 3.14.8.







## Cookie Authentication

Cookie authentication uses [HTTP cookies](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies) to authenticate client requests and maintain session information. It works as follows:

1. The client sends a login request to the server.

2. On the successful login, the server response includes the 

   Set-Cookie

    header that contains the cookie name, value, expiry time and some other info. Here is an example that sets the cookie named 

   ```
   JSESSIONID
   ```

   : 

   ```
   Set-Cookie: JSESSIONID=abcde12345; Path=/; HttpOnly
   ```

3. The client needs to send this cookie in the 

   ```
   Cookie
   ```

    header in all subsequent requests to the server. 

   ```
   Cookie: JSESSIONID=abcde12345
   ```

4. On the logout operation, the server sends back the `Set-Cookie` header that causes the cookie to expire.

**Note:** Cookie authentication is vulnerable to Cross-Site Request  Forgeries (CSRF) attacks, so it should be used together with other  security measures, such as [CSRF tokens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery#Prevention).

**Note for Swagger UI and Swagger Editor users:** Cookie authentication is currently not supported for "try it out" requests due to browser security restrictions. See [this issue](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-js/issues/1163) for more information. [SwaggerHub](https://swagger.io/tools/swaggerhub/) does not have this limitation.

### Describing Cookie Authentication

In OpenAPI 3.0 terms, cookie authentication is an [API key](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/api-keys/) that is sent `in: cookie`. 
For example, authentication via a cookie named `JSESSIONID` is defined as follows:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
...

# 1) Define the cookie name
components:
  securitySchemes:
    cookieAuth:         # arbitrary name for the security scheme; will be used in the "security" key later
      type: apiKey
      in: cookie
      name: JSESSIONID  # cookie name

# 2) Apply cookie auth globally to all operations
security:
  - cookieAuth: []
```

In this example, cookie authentication is applied globally to the whole API using the `security` key at the root level of the specification. 
If cookies are required for just a subset of operations, apply `security` on the operation level instead of doing it globally:

```yaml
paths:
  /users:
    get:
      security:
        - cookieAuth: []
      description: Returns a list of users.
      responses: 
        '200':
          description: OK
```

Cookie authentication can be combined with other authentication methods as explained in [Using Multiple Authentication Types](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/#multiple).

### Describing the Set-Cookie Header

You may also want to document that your login operation returns the cookie in the `Set-Cookie` header. 
You can include this information in the `description`, and also define the `Set-Cookie` header in the response `headers`, like so:

```yaml
paths:
  /login:
    post:
      summary: Logs in and returns the authentication  cookie
      requestBody:
        required: true
        description: A JSON object containing the login and password.
        content:
          application/json:
            schema:
              $ref: '#/components/schemas/LoginRequest'
      security: []    # no authentication
      responses:
        '200':
          description: >
            Successfully authenticated.
            The session ID is returned in a cookie named `JSESSIONID`. You need to include this cookie in subsequent requests.
          headers: 
            Set-Cookie:
              schema: 
                type: string
                example: JSESSIONID=abcde12345; Path=/; HttpOnly
```

Note that the `Set-Cookie` header and `securitySchemes` are not connected in any way, and the `Set-Header` definition is for documentation purposes only.

